In this lecture, you'll learn about configuring basic Chiku to aim on your school writers and switches
by configuring passwords the line level, when you first switch from the factory, you take the box,
you can connect it with a control cable and you can immediately start configuring it.
There's no password required when you deploy that or switch into your production environment.
You want to make sure that it's only authorized administrators that can get on there.
You don't want anybody else to make any changes.
So we're going to configure security to ensure that.
First up, a quick reminder, the IOW command hierarchy by default, when you first connect to a switch,
you'll be a user exact mode.
And this is a very limited way of vulvas.
Very few commands that you run here.
You can tell you to use that exact mode because the command prompt will show the hostname of a switch
and made a great Irvan symbol.
So to really be able to do much unretired a switch, you need to escalate your privilege level.
You do that with the enable command and that will get you into privileged exact mode.
That's where you can run all the visual commands and all of the debug commands.
When you do and are the enable command, you'll see the command prompt changes to show the hostname
and then a hash so you can view information about that.
Are there to make any changes you need to get into global configuration mode.
The command for VOP is configure terminal or config T and you'll see the prompt changes to include config
in brackets.
And then when you configure a particular thing on a switch, like a routing protocol or an interface,
you go at that level and then the prompt will change again.
For example, the hostname and end config dosch IAFF are configured interface if you're at the interface
configuration level.
OK, so basic line level security, minimal password security, it can be configured through the use
of static, locally defined passwords at three different levels and we'll get to the more advanced ways
that we can do security later on in this section.
So for the basic minimum level of security, you can use local meaning.
It's configured on regular switches, safe and static passwords.
We don't generally change the three levels, but you can do this on.
The first one is the console line.
So this affects you if you're accessing use it exact mode when connecting via a console cable.
Next one is virtual terminal.
The key Y line.
This affects you if you're accessing the device when you're connecting remotely via telnet or SSL secure
shell.
And finally, we can set a password, the privileged exact mode.
We do this by saying a password on going to enter the enable command.
Those three levels can be used independently or in combination with each other, and they can use the
same or different passwords.
So, for example, I could just put a password on Vivica Y line if I wanted to, or I could pass passwords
on there and on the console line and on privilege exact mode as well.
If you just put a password on your virtual terminal vq y lines, you would be required to enter a password
if you were using Telnet or S.H. to access the device.
But if you were connected up with a console cable, you wouldn't require a password.
And also if you just did it, there been when you went to the enable mode, you wouldn't be required
to add an additional password for enable mode if we did and or passwords, all three levels I could
use password one on the console password to too on UI and password three for the enable prompt.
Or I could use password one on all three of them so you can use the same or you can use different passwords.
So first one was configuring a password on the console.
If you do this, then whenever you connect with a console cable, you're going to need to enter a password
to actually get access to the command line with a console connection.
So when you're connected up over a console part, only one person can be connected over the console
at a time.
So when you configure base, the line number is always going to be zero because there was only one line
number available.
So for our config, our config would be a global configuration line console zero and then password,
see whatever password you want to be required.
And then you put in the logging command.
You have to log in command as well as deity.
When you say log in, that means that whenever somebody connects up over the console and they want to
get access to the command line, they have to enter the password that is configured under the console
line.
So we enter that config, then we do hook up to the device with a console cable, and then when we look
at that on our administrator workstation, when we do the connection, we'll see a prompt.
So we see that and the which are one put on here.
Console Zero is now available.
Press return to get started.
We hit return and it will then prompt us for a password.
So says User Access Verification Password.
And we enter the password in there, but we configured under the line.
If we enter the wrong password, it will prompt us for the password again.
If we enter the correct password, then we will get into the device, the user exact mode.
And you can see that down at the bottom there with our one glaring symbol.
Would it use our exact mode?
So that was configuring a password on the consulate, if you just configured a password on the console
line, but you don't configure a password anywhere else, when other methods, people won't be prompted
for a password.
So we want to enable a password for sure when people are connecting remotely over Telnet or S.H..
We'll talk about Telnet that first in Mwencha.
I'll show you how to enable a message and I'll later lecture.
An administrator can use Telnet to connect to the command line of a router switch remotely over an IP
connection.
But you're a switch does not accept incoming sessions by default for telnet.
You need to set this up.
So what you need to do is you need to configure an IP address and you need to enable telnet access under
the UI line.
Vicky Wiliness virtual terminal and is used for incoming CallNet and Associates connections.
So first thing that we needed to do there was to configure an IP address, you already know how to configure
an IP address on your router.
We covered on the switch before it as well.
But I'll just give you a quick reminder here.
So I'll layer to switch.
Is no IP routing aware?
It's unclear to device.
It does, however, support a single IP address for management so that you'll be able to telnet RSS
into it.
A default gateway will also need to be configured if you want to have connectivity to other IP subnets.
So our configuration for this is we do it under the survivors switched virtual interface interface VLAN
one.
Or you could use a different view on no.
If you want, give it an IP address and see no shut down and exit.
And then to configure the default gateway, it's going to use IP Default Gateway and the IP address.
The router gets an IP address on your switch that you're going to be able to telnet to it if it's only
are to switch.
If you try to add a second IP address, it's going to overwrite the first one.
You're only ever allowed to have one IP address on there.
OK, so basic town that she Kutta with our constant line, as you saw earlier, only one person can
connect over time.
But for Telnet and associates, you can have multiple administrators working on the device the same
time.
But there's a limited number of lines that are available depending on the device.
Usually at 16, those lines are allocated on a first come, first serve basis.
So if all 16 lines are already in use and then another administrator ties to Telnet onto the box, Virgini
be rejected.
So our configuration here is why invite UI zero and then 15?
That's configuring all of our terminal lines.
Then we say password.
We're using flat box to here and log in.
Log in again means user password that is configured under the line.
You will sometimes see a configuration here seeing line V, QIC zero and then four.
If you do that, you've only got five lines available, so it's better to enable all of the different
lines.
Once we have configured if I'm on my administer or workstation and I go telnet to the Earth, so the
way I would do that would be telnet TANDO to one the IP address, it will then prompt me for a password
and I have to enter the password there.
When I do that, I'll get into the user exact mode as you see here.
OK, so that was control and telnet passwords.
Another thing to talk about here is the exact time out.
By default you will be logged out if you don't enter any commands on it or switch for ten minutes.
Vorys And this is maybe you were working on the device at your desk and then you go away to make a cup
of coffee and then you get talking to somebody.
And when that happens, you don't want to leave yourself logged in at your desk in case somebody is
walking past and then they can jump on and see the configuration or not.
So it's a security feature that you'll be automatically Longdale after ten minutes of inactivity by
default, but you can change it to a different value if you want.
She could set it to log you quicker or you could set it to Wanggai after a longer period.
If you see no exact time or exact time I zero that disables the exact time out, which means you can
stay logged in indefinitely.
The commands to configure.
But again, it's configured the line level.
She can do it separately for console on, for telnet, for the console.
We've got like console zero exact time 015 which means will be long day after 15 minutes of activity.
And then we see why invited 015 for our telnet lines.
Exact time I five space three.
If you put in two numbers here, the first one is a value in minutes.
The second one is a value in seconds.
So there we would be long day after five minutes and 30 seconds of activity.
Another good reason it's good to have the exact time I would go back to slide a couple of slides was
when we were talking about if all the lines that are in use, then nobody else is going to be able to
get in.
So let's say that you had configured your 15 lines, but the administrators have not been cleaning the
sessions properly.
Then if all 50 node in use and you've disabled the exact time out, then nobody's going to be able to
telnet into that.
Right.
Or you would have to go and connect with a console connection to clear voice sessions.
So it's a really good idea to have an exact time configured on there to see it both for security reasons
and to make sure that users and administrators will be timed out if they did not clear of sessions cleanly.
OK, moving on, the next thing we can secure our virtual terminal lines with access list to get an
additional level of security so that can be used to limit telnet and associates access so that only
your administrator workstations are going to be able to log in.
To do this.
We configure a standard e-mail.
So I've got access to just one permit host to handle Ouda.
Ten, ten to ten is my administrator workstation.
In this example, it doesn't have to be an individual host.
We could specify an entire subnet here if you've got multiple administrators, all with source IP address
in the same subnet and to apply it to the terminal lines we see line.
Vickey Y 015.
We've got our login password and we've got our login command and our password command as usual.
And then we see ox's class one in to apply that access list.
Now, what happens is for a minister to be able to log in, you need to enter password that we configured
on the line and we need to be coming in from an approved IP address as well.
So if I try telnet into this device now and I'm not using IP address Tandoor OTA 10, I'm coming from
a different location.
The error message ofshe is connection diffused by remote host.
Well, we were talking about that, I said earlier, but for telnet access you need to configure an
IP address and you need to configure town to access under the line as well.
If you do not specify a login under your UI lines, then nobody is going to be able to telnet to that
device.